You've now built a recommender based on each of
the three main ways people create recommendations: knowledge based recommendations,
collaborative filtering based recommendations,
and content based recommendations.
In the first recommendation,
you filtered movies by year and genre allowing you to
recommend top movies based on which movies best met that criteria.
This was an example of knowledge based recommendations.
Knowledge based recommendations are common for
luxury or rare purchases like jewelry, cars, or homes.
For example, the filters used when looking at homes on Zillow is
an example of users getting back items that meet a certain criteria.
Certain filters are the most common way that knowledge recommendations are implemented.
In the second recommendation,
we use ratings from many users across items in
a collaborative way to recommend new items to users.
This is called collaborative filtering and it's
the most common way that recommendations are made.
The final type of recommender is called content based recommendation.
Content based recommenders use information about similarities
between items to make recommendations like you did with the year and genre of movies.
Often, the most sophisticated recommendation engines
allow for recommendations using filters,
user, and item ratings,
as well as information about the items.
Even though these are the three main ways to make recommendations, knowledge based,
collaborative filtering based, and content based,
there are a number of other ways recommendations can be made.
Further discussion about recommendations is provided in the text on the next page.